# TTS_RoomTokenizer
A tool for generating map tokens for use in Tabletop Simulator

## General Info

TODO


## Installation and Usage Instructions:
Instructions were written using GIMP v2.8.16 on Windows and may vary with other versions.  It has also been tested with v2.10.14 on Windows.

This has not been tested on OSX or Linux.  It is expected to work (with an additional manual step for OSX users in the instructions below), but it has not been confirmed.

* Copy RoomTokenizer.py your GIMP install directory.  On Windows, this is most likely C:\Program Files\GIMP 2.  It needs to go a few subfolders down, so for me, the full path is C:\Program Files\GIMP 2\lib\gimp\2.0\plug-ins.  If GIMP was already running, you'll need to restart it, and you should see a new option at the bottom of your Edit menu: "Export Selection"

* Open up your (legally acquired) map in GIMP and convert it to single layer image of just the rooms and the walls surrounding them with a transparent background.  There's not really a good way to automate this - you'll have to do it manually.  The Quick Mask (Shift + Q) and a large eraser are your friends here.  Save it as an xcf file (GIMP's default file format).
  * You can use File -> Open to import a single page of a PDF file with a configurable resolution.  It defaults to 100 pixels per inch, which is probably lower resolution than you want.  I'm not sure the best way to find the native resolution of a PDF, so just increase the resolution by 100 until you start seeing diminishing returns.

* Next, you'll probably want to assign the script to a hotkey to keep you from having to go through menus too many times (Edit -> Preferences -> Interface -> Configure Keyboard Shortcuts.  Search for "Export Selection" and assign it a hotkey)

* Now we can get started:  select the first room you want to export. Quick Mask and Rectangle Select (R) are your main tools here.  With the Rectangle Select, you can add to your current selection by holding Shift or subtract from it by holding Ctrl (on Windows, probably Command or whatever on Mac)

* Based on the wall thickness in your map, it may be hard to see doors on the individual rooms.  I admittedly haven't used the room tokens generated by this yet, but I went with like an interlocking puzzlepiece system, where I'd cut an obvious chunk out of the room to signify a door, and have that chunk as part of the next room

* **OSX Users:** In the same folder where you saved your xcf file earlier, create a folder with the same filename with "rooms" appended to the end.  For example, if you saved the xcf file as ExampleFile.xcf, create a subfolder called ExampleFilerooms.  This folder is generated automatically in Windows and Linux (untested on Linux)

* Hit that hotkey you selected earlier, and if we're on the right track, your selection should disappear.  In the folder where you saved your xcf file earlier, there should now be a folder with the same name as your xcf file with "rooms" appended to the end.  Rour room image is now inside that folder, titled room00000.png

* Repeat the process for every room

* Import the images into TTS as custom tokens.  Unfortunately, this must be done one by one.

* Put all your tokens into a hidden area, drag them out onto the main table when your players get to that room, and scale them to size (+/- keys).
